I wanted to help the deaf
so that they too can know Jehovah.
So I decided to move
to a sign-language territory:
the sign-language group in Dar es Salaam.
We had to travel by bus,
and sometimes we traveled far
(stuck in a traffic jam
for two to three hours),
and it was expensive.
I still remember my early days in service
with the sign-language group.
I was very inexperienced with the language,
and one day, my service partner
asked me to conduct her Bible study.
Every time I tried to talk
to the student, argh, she didn’t understand.
As I kept trying, she became
more and more frustrated with me,
and I started to feel discouraged.
I wanted to help, but I was powerless.
I felt bad.
I told myself: ‘I still don’t know the deaf.
‘I still don’t know sign language.
‘Why has Jehovah brought me into this field
in which I am not able to help the deaf?’
I was invited
to the School for Kingdom Evangelizers
in 2014, from September to November.
After graduating, I received
an assignment in sign language again.
Jehovah truly helped me so much.
That was exactly
the encouragement I needed to persevere
in learning the language
and becoming more effective in my assignment.
I was able to conduct my own Bible studies,
and they could really understand me now.
When we started,
there were two baptized deaf publishers,
but now there are over ten.
I’ve had the opportunity to help
three deaf people to make progress,
to dedicate themselves to Jehovah,
and to get baptized.
The training I received at the school
is still helping me now
in my new assignment
at the translation office,
where I serve together with my husband.
We are joyful because we know
that through this work,
many deaf people
will receive publications in their language
and this will bring about
an increase in this territory.
I graduated from the School
for Kingdom Evangelizers in 2015.
And it was a privilege
to receive the assignment
to go help the Maasai
to know Jehovah in their mother tongue.
Traveling is difficult.
Sometimes I travel by vehicle,
but sometimes there are areas
in which there are no vehicles,
so I’m forced to walk.
Sometimes I can travel by motorcycle
to reach many more people.
But still, transportation
is a difficult part of it:
there are valleys, there are mountains,
there are uphills, there are downhills.
So transportation is difficult.
When I finally reached the territory,
I was able to find the Maasai.
I was apprehensive about their reaction
because I know their culture;
they don’t know Jehovah.
So I wondered what would happen
when I reached their territory.
During that stressful time,
I prayed to Jehovah;
I read his Word, the Bible;
I meditated on accounts of our brothers
and sisters mentioned in the Bible;
and after prayer, Jehovah gave me strength.
I was able to return to them,
make return visits, and start Bible studies.
So the results have been good.
I am happy
that after starting studies,
some started taking steps
and attending meetings.
They later made good progress,
and now some of them
are our brothers and sisters.
They dedicated themselves and were baptized.
I feel so much joy.
Jehovah has given me
the strength and the ability
to be used to further the preaching
of the good news
and to help the Maasai spiritually.